
There is a well-established opinion that decimal rounding of floating-point numbers is necessary only when outputting the results of binary calculations (float, double, etc.) to a decimal string. Let us show that this is not the case. Let's assume that after some calculations we got a float: y = 1.00011101100011011100010e-9. Its decimal value is x = 2.1786023862659931182861328125E-3. Binary y will be written to the processor memory. The question arises, how many digits in the number x can be trusted when outputting x to a string? On the other hand, how many significant digits must x be rounded to for all the digits in the string to be correct?
 We know that float allows you to represent a decimal floating-point number in which the seven decimal digits of the mantissa can be trusted. These numbers are called correct. Let's round the mantissa of our decimal x when outputting to a string to 7 significant digits and get the number X = 2.178602E-3. This rounded float number will be y`=1.00011101100011011100000e-9. The number y` will be the binary equivalent of the number X. The decimal value of binary y` is x` = 2.178601920604705810546875E-3 and is the closest to X. In this case, the number y ≥ y` will be stored in the processor memory. To minimize calculation errors in further arithmetic operations, we must convert the binary y to y` and store the number y` in memory. We call such a reduction correct decimal rounding of a binary number.
[] provides C++ test code for proper decimal rounding of binary numbers, based on the concept of arithmetic of binary equivalents of decimal numbers. The theoretical justification for this code is given in a paper whose preprint can be found at https://www.techrxiv.org/articles/preprint/The_arithmetic_of_binary_equivalents_of_decimal_numbers/19294511/1 .

